But I guess the other issue is that our
input sets stayed on each key press and
we should probably debounce that.
>> I mean, that depends, right?
Debouncing, the act of debouncing it,
like, on the input,
you don't really get to debounce it,
right?
You do have to update
the input when they hit keys.
Right, you play a game where it's like,
Sure you'll be calling less things right?
But if again, that comes down to
that like heuristic of did it take?
I mean, like 2.1 milliseconds, right?
And is it what are you going to do
bounce you're going to wait for
how long do you show them a keystroke,
right?
And so becomes a little bit tricky,
and does the cost of debouncing.
Add more, so on and so forth.
Now If they were typing, and this is
actually like the example that we end on
which is the final example in
this like our time together
is a forum where like loading and
filtering the list takes Forever, right?
And like how do you like concurrent
react update the input while waiting on
the list.
So like, should you denounce?
Like hitting the network on
a autocomplete for a search?
Yes.
Right should you to bounce
rendering everything else?
But I think like prioritizing the feedback
for the user that they did the thing
right you do usually that's what you know
the difference between what is an urgent
update and
what can wait a little bit, right?
Especially like there is a certain amount
of insofar that network requests take
time, there's a certain expectation
that things aren't always immediate.
But me, typing should be right me clicking
on a thing I should get feedback, right?
The idea that the network request goes
out and comes back or something happens.
There's a certain amount of grace for
that but If I hover over a button,
it should change.
If I type in an input field,
it should respect that field.
But if I click,
I should get that response.
And those are the things like I think
we've all used enough UIs in our life to
know as those are the things that
drive us absolutely nuts, yeah.
>> Yeah, I think it pretty that
the effects will be very similar to
oversee, right?
>> Yeah,
we'd purposely create the issue, right?
We have a set of conditionals here,
and we're just gonna call it, right?
Should we Do you use effect to let it
finish this thing so on and so forth,
right.
During the use effect would let it
finish and then go for it again,
do the whole commit phase it's tricky.
With concurrent react like if there was
a this would count as an urgent update
because we haven't like things are urgent
lists you say they're non urgent,
like this would stop a non urgent
thing because it's counted as urgent.
So maybe you would want that, I mean,
this app is one that's supposed
to intentionally have problems.
So yeah,
you can find a few more in here too.
And you will, but
like with this one like what I put in
a use effect probably not what I put
it maybe in a use memo which is like hey
only if only even try to figure out.
Like if any of these things that depends
on have changed right that might make
a lot more sense in this case here
we're going to check no matter what.
But like, yeah, like I don't know
if I would use use effect but
I would probably use a use memo,
right to be like, run this function.
Right?
If and only if the things that he's even
cares about have changed at all right and
what we said before React is for
every hook React is keeping track
almost like I'm As every version of it,
it's like almost like linked
lists like structure, right?
It knows when these things changes to
trigger a use callback, to trigger use
effect, to trigger use memo, but,
since use memo has a dependency list, and
then recalculates the value Setting a use
effect to have a dependency list, and
then you'll manually set the thing is just
like, I would use probably in this case,
but then also this is just
flipping of too, right?
And so the question there is like,
we completely a game of, let's measure it.
But they will probably both
be infinitesimally nothing.
All right, so the question was,
Why is it bad this way and
not the other one is like
the simplification of the question, right?
This one is like almost not,
it's React adjacent but
not necessarily a React thing which is.
Before this ever even gets into U state
right where like jobs is going along it's
like yeah cops I love cops, right It's
gonna be stored it's gonna be a table
that we split up into an array
I love it I'm here for it.
Or look a call to U state.
I wonder what we're gonna hand you state.
It then gets to this generate random
color which is being called immediately.
JavaScript which is single threaded,
right?
Blocks, the main thread says,
we're calling this.
I need to get the return value of
this function right now, right?
And that is our slow function.
It gets the return value.
The hooks in React only care about that
value the first time they're ever called.
Right that's why hook order matters if
you ever like tried to put like a hook in
a conditional React is like absolutely not
right like this is all held together by
like it's both very sophisticated and very
fragile at the same time right that's why
if you have anything like you put
the hooks in a for loop react will yell at
you If you put the hooks in a continuous
like the order of the hooks matter and
so when react see is like, hey,
this is a second use days like
I already had a value for that.
I don't care what gets passed in
JavaScript stopped what it was doing.
halted everything,
ran your super expensive function and
then handle that return value for
react to throw it on the floor, right?
When we wrap it in
an anonymous function And
maybe we start with
the character at the beginning.
We say, just par says,
yeah, this is a function.
Cool.
I don't have to call it yet,
cuz this is like an uncalled function,
right?
Hey, react if this is your
first time with this hook,
go run this function and it'll give
you the initial value and react again.
It's like I've already
run this hook before.
I'm aware of it.
It's the second hope The second hook
of the four that are happening in here
are five I guess.
And the use,
it's easy to be in the right order,
the sets can obviously happen wherever.
But it's the second of the fourth of
the four hooks that I know about.
I already have a value for that.
Thank you for this anonymous function
which happens to be expensive.
You.
We'll be throwing it on the floor now,
and it has never called and not calling
the extension function is faster
than calling the expensive function.
>> Why after every keystroke wasn't it?
Like giving you a different answer?
Like you said earlier,
>> A new color was getting generated right
by JavaScript and React didn't care.
Okay I have the first one yeah I'm
not like it's like imagine there's
a condition al,
this is not how the code is written.
Imagining this conditional if this is
the first time this the second use
state hook is called I care about
the value if not first time.
No op, right and so it's like you did
all that like JavaScript did all this
work on this expensive function,
handed it over and react as I and
nobody cares like uninterested
in this thank you for this gift.
I am going to go put it
in the other room and
never look at it again Yeah,
the other question is like, says yes.
Is it not always best practice
is having to bounce yeah,
like I said before on an input field,
like, generally speaking the like for
most performance advice,
it is never an always right.
Like it is, you know,
otherwise frameworks would do it.
Out of the box, or the DOM would I mean,
you can't trust the DOM to
adjust the stuff, right?
But generally speaking, it would be just
kind of in place by most frameworks or
things along those lines.
But that is probably not
always the UX you want.
Now, should you debounce
the side effect from that change?
Should you to bounce it slamming the
server as you're like typing out your like
magnum opus and to search for you know
the whatever Pokemon you're looking for?
Absolutely, you should have bounced
because you don't want to like slam
the server because like
they're still typing, but
you should show them the characters
that they're typing.
Right.
So
there's like usually the bounce things
about the inputfield Absolutely.
Right.
The actual like Cuz React is not gonna
change the contents of the input field.
If you take off the onChange handler,
you can hit buttons all day.
It will just never show it in there.
Other frameworks might, with two-way
bindings and stuff like that, handle it.
But unless you change the state,
you will not see the letters
you typed in that input field.
In that input field.
So it will look like I said before,
it will look like you have
the performance issue in there.
So yeah, the question was,
did I get it right?
The first version of the function
generate random color was still called on
every stroke.
It just didn't update the state.
Yeah, it was called, it was expensive.
And so now we're saying hey useState,
only call this if you think you need it.
And after the first one,
it's like I don't need this.
And so it doesn't get called, and
not calling the expensive function is
way faster than calling it, exactly